# DSCI-310-Group-5

## Team member:
- Tien Nguyen
- Claudio Torres Cantú
- Edison Le
- Clichy Bazenga Mwangombe


## Summary
The project seeks to provide a solution to the prediction problem of spotting benign and malignant tumors, which comes from the question "Is there a way to efficiently classify whether a tumor is malignant or benign with high accuracy,  given a set of different features observed from the tumor in its development stage?". 
Such problem was resolved using a predictive model. Our initial hypothesis was that it is possible to do so yet it would have a high error rate due to tumors features' variations. 
After performing EDA, such as summary statistics and data cleaning and visualization, we were able to spot some clear distinctions between benign and malignant tumors in some features.
We then tested multiple different classification models and arrived at a K-Nearest-Neighbor model with tuned hyperparameters with very good accuracy, recall, precision and f1 score. 

## Instructions for Execution
The project was developed in Python, specifically in Python version 3.9.10
This project relies heavily in Python Packages related to Machine Learning and Scientific Computation in Python. Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn and Scikit-Learn. 
The dependencies needed are:

|Dependency  |   Version|
|------------|----------|
|Pandas      |   1.3.4  |
|Numpy       |   1.20.3 |
|matplotlib  |   3.4.3  |
|seaborn     |   0.11.2 |
|scikit-learn|   0.24.2 |
|pytest      |   6.2.4  | 
|jupyter-book|   0.12.2 | 

In order to run the code, we advise you to use the Dockerfile in the main branch to initiate a proper containerized environment and avoid any problems with dependencies. The code is intended to run in JupyterLab.

### Requirements:
It is required to have 6GB of free storage in order to be able to succesfully pull the project's docker image. 

### Container Steps:

First, clone the project repository from Github to your local machine by running:
`git clone https://github.com/DSCI-310/DSCI-310-Group-5.git`

Using the command to pull the repository to your local machine:

`docker pull nhantien/dsci310group5:v0.6.0`

This command pulls the *nhantien/dsci310group5* image tagged *v0.6.0* from Docker Hub if it is not already present on the local host. It then starts a container running a Jupyter Server and exposes the container’s internal port 8888 to port 8888 of the host machine. It also mount a volume from the project folder on your machine to the Docker containter's folder at `/home/jovyan/work`:

`docker run --rm -p 8888:8888 -v "${PWD}":/home/jovyan/work nhantien/dsci310group5:v0.6.0`

The container will be cleaned up and removed after the Jupyter Server exits with the flag `--rm`. Simply remove the flag from the origial command if you want the container to remain intact upon exit.

Copy the link generated by the terminal to access the web interface of JupyterLab with your web browser of choice. Make sure that you have no other Jupyter Lab or Jupyter Notebook instances running because it might cause a conflict with the port mapping (8888). You can check for those with these commands:

`jupyter lab list`

`jupyter notebook list`

Run `jupyter notebook stop 8888` to make sure that no notebook instance is running on port 8888, where we will be mapping our containerized notebook.

Using the Jupyter Lab's terminal interface, make sure that you are inside the `work` directory by running `cd work`, then run `make clean` follows by `make all`.

This will run the scripts to start the analysis, generate the neccessary figures and tables, and finally render the report with `JupyterBook`.
Navigate to `/work/doc/jbook/_build/html` and open the file `breast_cancer_prediction.html` inside the containerized JupyterLab interface to view the full analysis.

## License
The licenses for this project can be found inside the LICENSE file. Please take a look at them before proceeding further.
